add governance (#10)
cncf/tag-env-sustainability: governance/paper-process.md

# Process for creating papers

This document is intended to provide a consistent mechanism for cloud native
environmental sustainability to produce community papers, ensure they are reviewed, and subsequently
published.  Content of this document does not supersede existing processes and
is intended to be used in conjunction with [existing proposal to project
instructions](process.md).

## Proposal

If a proposal is made that includes a paper as a deliverable, the proposal needs
to ensure that there is a clearly identified lead and a well defined paper
scope.

The paper scope and topic should be raised in at least one WG meeting to

> solicit more volunteers (ideally 4).  Interested parties should meet at least

Reviewer: I would add something in there, with volunteers, that we try to choose from a range of companies/geos/et cetera, to make sure the proposal takes into account more breadth.

once to describe the intent of the paper, & propose a very rough outline to
present to WG leadership for planning and scheduling as a project.

## Project

Once a WG Leadership sponsor is assigned to the project, the group should meet
to and agree on a tentative schedule.

### Tentative schedule milestones

The below list the minimum milestones that should be captured in a tentative
schedule along with the estimated time frame for completion.  Milestones are
explained further in this document.

> | TODO | Milestone | Estimated time |

Reviewer 2: - `TODO` -> `Tasks`
- Projects can go large and small and vary among different natures, let's defer `estimated time` to a case by case basis.

| -- | -- | -- |
| * [ ] | Audience, Goals, & refining scope | 1 week |
| * [ ] | Tasking Assignment | 1 week |

> | * [ ] | Content Rough-in | 2-3 weeks |

Reviewer 2: I don't think `Rough-in` offers meaningful clarity in this context. Did you mean "outline" or "draft"?

and the suggested content cannot be collaboratively resolved, it is the duty
of the authors to capture the different views with references, benefits, and
drawbacks or contingencies in order to provide the reader with enough
information to reach their own conclusion.

#### References

It is important that any references used to generate paper content be cited
appropriately through footnotes and within the references section.  This
permits the reader to not only dig deep into a specific reference area but also
provides source content and is a matter of good practice.  

### Collaborative

Contributors now review all content roughed-in and transition raw content into
draft content.  They may begin commenting on sections, expanding ideas, refining
arguments, and providing citations.  Contributors are encouraged to discuss
content specific items in the doc through comments whereas larger themes and
writing decisions should be discussed in the corresponding slack channel.  This
keeps the doc clean as well as documents thematic decisions in the primary
collaboration & coordination channel.

### Executive summary and content wrap-up

> If the paper exceeds five (5) pages, an Executive summary commensurate with the

Reviewer 2: Given that markdown and blogs are the prevalent forms of CNCF publications, page limit has very little meaning; it only adds confusion.

Author: This md exclusively talks about publishing papers, which are published as pdf. Some of these papers go 20+ pages.

Reviewer: Let's remove anything overly prescriptive.

length of the document (but not to exceed 3 pages) should be written.  Content,
comments, and other discussions should be closed out and finalized at this time.

### Narrative voice

> No more than three contributing individuals should be assigned for narrative

Reviewer 2: why three?

Author: Because with more you will never get the paper harmonized.

Reviewer: Papers often have more than 3 contributors.  If you run it by a technical writer or have good editors, this is not an issue.  Can we place this more in terms of "narrative voice" instead of restricting contributors?

Author: The contributors are not limited, as well as you can have more than 3 people checking on the narrative voice.

Reviewer: "No more than three contributing individuals" looks like you are limiting to 3.  I'm very confused by this comment.

voice. The narrative voice is a semi-final pass of the paper to ensure it reads
as a single, unified voice. It should ensure:

* the language origin is consistent throughout the document (lang_en or
  lang_us),

> * phrasing is similar (caddy corner not mixed in with kitty corner),

Reviewer 2: The reference of `caddy corner` vs `kitty corner` is confusing. I think you mean consistent flow of the language.

Author: https://brians.wsu.edu/2016/05/31/caddy-corner/

Reviewer 2: Your reference only makes it more confusing: it explicitly discourages `caddy corner`. 

Back to my general comment, the goal of writing to a diverse community is to make the messaging clear. If readers have to use a dictionary, the writing is not done right.

Reviewer: Shall we add something stating that regional slang will be, where possible, not in documents?  I am very careful when speaking across geos to avoid cultural references (not perfect, but I do my best).

I think for the above phrasing, can we just say "the language is consistent in tone throughout the document."  Honestly, I can take many different authors and do a once-over (or thrice over) and get a consistent tone, so I'm not entirely sure this is necessary with an appropriate editor.

Reviewer: As important as an English speaker would be a non-English native speaker as a reviewer to ask on anything confusing.  English is weird and confusing.  Although this kinda argues for more people the merrier, from a clarity/understanding perspective.

* acronyms are spelled out at their first use and then abbreviated later,
* footnotes and citations are consistent and not direct hyperlinks in the text
* vague terms are defined in a glossary or otherwise cited to the cloud native
  environmental sustainability lexicon in the repo

### Final group review

This is the opportunity for the group to collectively review the polished paper
prior to opening it for community review.  This should resolve and close out any
outstanding items.

### Community Review

At this point the paper needs to be locked from editing with the exception of
the Adjudicators (see below).  It should be made public with the permission
settings such that suggestions and comments are permitted.  The lead will then
provide a brief write up of a call to action with a link to the document and the
due by date for comments.  This write up and corresponding links and details
will be emailed to the Environmental Sustainability WG mailing list, at which point we
actively solicit public comment.

### Public comment adjudication

Prior to opening the paper for community review, the group should select no more

> than 3 Adjudicators.  These individuals are tasked with accepting/rejecting

Reviewer 2: why 3?

Author: The more you have in the discussion the longer you will need to find a consensus.

Reviewer 2: The community will reach the consensus through public comment and deliberation. Vivid discussions are encouraged, not limited. Setting an arbitrary upper bound is not the way the CNCF community operates.

information to reach their own conclusion.

#### References

It is important that any references used to generate paper content be cited
appropriately through footnotes and within the references section.  This
permits the reader to not only dig deep into a specific reference area but also
provides source content and is a matter of good practice.  

### Collaborative

Contributors now review all content roughed-in and transition raw content into
draft content.  They may begin commenting on sections, expanding ideas, refining
arguments, and providing citations.  Contributors are encouraged to discuss
content specific items in the doc through comments whereas larger themes and
writing decisions should be discussed in the corresponding slack channel.  This
keeps the doc clean as well as documents thematic decisions in the primary
collaboration & coordination channel.

### Executive summary and content wrap-up

If the paper exceeds five (5) pages, an Executive summary commensurate with the
length of the document (but not to exceed 3 pages) should be written.  Content,
comments, and other discussions should be closed out and finalized at this time.

### Narrative voice

> No more than three contributing individuals should be assigned for narrative
> voice. The narrative voice is a semi-final pass of the paper to ensure it reads

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Three contributing individuals should be assigned for narrative voice.
If there is a special need to assign more, it is possible, but should be discussed in the TAG beforehand.
The narrative voice is a semi-final pass of the paper to ensure it reads
```

Reviewer: Please remove this entirely.  It's too prescriptive.  Narrative voice can be done with a single reviewer after the fact and as we discussed, landscape is more than 3.

Reviewer 3: +1

Reviewer 3: ...updated, suggestion
